in today's free Madden school.com tip
we're going to be going over a way to
enhance the screen pass a little bit and
disguise it really well so the screen
pass is gonna be more effective and it's
going to be much harder for your
opponent to read so the PlayBook we're
in here is the Jacksonville Jaguars the
formations gun trips tight end but this
formation isn't exclusive to the Jaguars
playbook it's found that a bunch of
different play books and the play we're
looking for it's called Jags why screen
now listen sometimes be whatever
playbook you're in their team name why
screen it just depends on what teams
playbook you're using it'll be blank
white screen but it's just a tight end
screen and you can see it it's pretty
easy to diagnose and to figure out what
play it's called now we only want to run
this against zone defense so if you're
facing someone who's always doing man to
man defense just forget about this play
a lot of times you'll have a lot of guys
doin cover three or cover two and Madame
15 and so that's why we like this play
the place we're going to run it against
here is cover three sky but it works
against any zone like I said it could be
cover to cover three cover for a zone
blitz doesn't matter as long as they're
in zone display of work to set the play
up we're going to put our tight end on
the streak put our running back on an
out route and emotion into the left now
if you have time you can heart route
your receivers on the left whatever you
want it doesn't affect the play at all
but just makes it look less like that
screen pass so this looks like no screen
pass you're ever going to see in the
game usually running that blocks for a
second and then kind of just drifts out
this time he's not doing that usually
receivers are on very basic route here
the receivers are running really complex
routes and so it's going to be really
hard for your opponent to see this
screen coming you just want to follow
your blockers you can see here how we
kind of ran straight to the sideline
first and then we cut it up field you'll
want to do that so your blockers can
pick up those defenders again this is
pretty much how the place should look
just put your tie down on a streak
running back on an out route in the
motion to the left I'm gonna do whatever
you want on the left side of the field
and then we're just going to run
straight to the sideline and then cut it
up field and you can see it's an easy 15
yards it doesn't look like 15 15 yards
buts 15 yards every time against any
sort of zone defense you will want a
halfway decent offensive line which we
don't have it'll work better with an
offensive line that's good and a speedy
running back which we have here so the
better the running back and the faster
he is and the better the offensive line
the better let's play will work you said
time we only got seven yards 67 yards
but still it's not a bad gain especially
when you always have that chance to
break it for a big 30 40 yard gain